ambulance services can be the difference
between life and
death in a war zone this rescue work
becomes even more critical but here in
Gaza the lives of paramedics are also
endangered the targeting of medical
facilities is considered a war crime
they have protected status under
International humanitarian law but
medical staff say they have been
repeatedly and iately
hit since the first day of the war the
Israelis have targeted our health system
the paramedics and the ambulances some
of our staff have lost their lives and
many of our staff were detained while
performing their duties and sent to
Israeli
prisons at least 310 health
professionals have been arrested by the
Israeli army during the war some have
been subjected to torture and
starvation f is one of those who was
detained he says his rescue team was
evacuating the injured from a hospital
when they were
stopped our ambulances were intercepted
despite coordination with the
Palestinian red cresant they stripped us
of our clothes treated us in the most
horrific way beating us and arrested two
of us in addition to my brother Muhammad
after 3 hours the Israelis released us
and forced us to move towards South Gaza
this happens all the time the war was
also proven deadly for those attempting
to save lives nearly 500 health workers
have been killed one of the medical
workers to lose their lives was Han
jaari the director of ambulance and
emergency he was killed during a strike
on a Dar clinic in Gaza City
coordinating the transfer of injured
people throughout Gaza the health
Ministry described him as a solid model
of steadfastness and
determination not only is the work
dangerous but paramedics say the intense
demand and nature of the war means they
are isolated from their families and
often sleep at night in the ambulance
headquarters but despite the hardships
and personal risks some like f aana say
they will continue working to save
Palestinians under endless Israeli
bombardment
Al
Palestine make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
zero